---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Booklist"
date:   2020-01-01 16:00:00 +0700
categories: books
tags: books
---

A few years back I began plugging my reading list into a spreadsheet because I was curious what percentage of books I read were by Americans vs Canadians, how many were by Black or Indigenous authors, how many were fiction vs non-fiction, and so on. One of the most striking things I noticed when doing that was that I was reading nearly 10 books by men for every one by a woman. This was never a conscious decision on my part, just the kinds of places I got book recommendations from tended to favour male authors and when the authors I read cited sources I followed through and read, more often than not that'd be another man. That is one of the disadvantages of trying to read a lot of canonical books and scholarship from the early 20th century, I guess.

I did better last year, getting the imbalance down to around two men per woman, but still, that isn't balanced. In 2019 I vowed to overcome that.

In the end I read 64 books last year, with 38 books by women vs 26 by men. Slightly more than half of what I read was fiction, slightly less than half American, a quarter Canadian, one in 6 by a Black author, only one in 20 Indigenous (the previous two years I was taking courses on Indigenous issues so I largely took a break from that topic this year).

The best classic books I read in 2019 were Alex Haley's "Roots" and Zora Neale Hurston's "Their Eyes Were Watching God." Gabrielle Roy's "The Tin Flute" was really good too and would be the Canadian entry in that category.

I'd put Elena Ferrente's "The Days of Abandonment", Pat Barker's "The Silence of the Girls", Mary Gaitskill's "Bad Behaviour", and Madeline Miller's "Circe" on the list of really great fiction I would have overlooked had I not been explicitly trying to include more women. Great reads, all.

Lindy West's "Shrill" falls into the same category though with non-fiction, as does "Invisible Women" by Caroline Criado Perez. Liz Plank's "For the Love of Men" too, which is about toxic masculinity and really should be read by men but has a title and jacket design that suggest it is being marketed mostly toward women, which is a shame. Definitely a good one for men to read.

Shane Bauer's "American Prison", Albert Woodfox's "Solitary", and Angela Davis's "If They Come in the Morning" were all good books and solid reminders of how screwed up the justice system in the US was even before the current administration. I gave money to RAICES and Amnesty International after reading them.

1. Jin, Ha - War Trash
1. Gossage and Little - Illustrated History of Quebec
1. Gougeon, Gilles - A History of Quebec Nationalism
1. Mann, Susan - The Dream of Nation
1. Jacobs, Jane - The Question of Seperatism
1. Vargas, Jose Antonio - Dear America: Notes of an Undocumented Citizen
1. Armstrong, Elizabeth - The Crisis of Quebec: 1914-1918
1. Baillargeon, Denyse - Making Due
1. Edugyan, Esi - Washington Black
1. Morrison, Toni - The Bluest Eye
1. Trudeau, Pierre Elliot - The Asbestos Strike
1. Dubois, W. E. - The Souls of Black Folks
1. Roy, Gabrielle - The Tin Flute
1. Hill, Lawrence - The Book of Negros
1. Rice, Waubgeshig - Moon of the Crusted Snow
1. Orange, Tommy - There There
1. Bauer, Shane - American Prison
1. Jacobs, Jane - Dark Age Ahead
1. Steward, Geoff - In Search of Nice Americans
1. Sakamoto, Mark - Forgiveness
1. McCarthy, Cormac - The Road
1. Ferrente, Elena - The Day of Abandonment
1. Ishiguro, Kazou - An Artist in the Floating World
1. Miller, Sam J. - Blackfish City
1. Ferrente, Elena - My Brilliant Friend
1. Ferrente, Elena - The Story of a New Name
1. Ferrente, Elena - Those Who Leave and Those Who Stay
1. Ferrente, Elena - The Story of a Lost Child
1. Perez, Caroline Criado - Invisible Women
1. Painter, Nell Irvin - The History of White People
1. Haley, Alex - Roots
1. Katz, Jonathan - The Big Truck Went By
1. Woodfox, Albert - Solitary
1. Jen, Gish - Typical American
1. Hurston, Zora Neale - Their Eyes Were Watching God
1. Wong, Lindsey - The Woo Woo
1. Immerwahr, Daniel - How to Hide an Empire
1. Yeung, Winnie - Homes
1. Dalcher, Christine - Vox
1. Barker, Pat - The Silence of the Girls
1. Gaitskill, Mary - Bad Behaviour
1. Bala, Sharon - The Boat People
1. Hurston, Zora Neale - Barracoon
1. Steinbeck, John - Cannery Row
1. Murakami, Haruki - Killing Commendatore
1. Shell, Ellen Ruppel - Cheap
1. Nichols, Tom - The Death of Expertise
1. Stedman, M. L. - The Light Between the Oceans
1. Dumont, Eric - Songs for the Cold of Heart
1. Thanh, Yasoko - Mistakes to Run With
1. Riley, Swendoline - First Love
1. Miller, Madeline - Circe
1. Lent, Jeremy - The Patterning Instinct
1. Kendi, Ibram X. - Stamped from the Beginning
1. Ólafsdótter, Audur Ava - Butterflies in November
1. Deparle, Jason - A Good Provider Is One Who Leaves
1. West, Lindy - Shrill
1. Evaristo, Bernadine - Girl, Woman, Other
1. Renzetti, Elizabeth - Shrewed
1. Plank, Liz - For the Love of Men
1. Hjorth, Vigdis - Will and Testament
1. Van Llewyn, Sophie - Bottled Goods
1. Davis, Angela Y. - If They Come in the Morning
1. Currid-Halkett, Elizabeth - Sum of Small Things

The overall best books I read in 2019?

Non-fiction, I'd have to go with Jason Deparle's "A Good Provider is One Who Leaves" which tells the story of a large Filipino family as members immigrate all over the world in search of opportunity. Exceptional reporting, fantastic storytelling, and a hugely important topic.

Fiction, I think Bernadine Evaristo's "Girl, Woman, Other" probably takes it. Again, this one probably falls into the category of books I'd have skipped because it didn't sound like it "was for me", but that would have been a huge mistake. Great book that invites the reader into the minds of a dozen or so women from a broad range of ages, classes, backgrounds, and sexualities. I super duper recommend it.