---
layout: post
title:  "2022 Booklist"
date:   2023-01-01 16:00:00 +0700
categories: books
tags: books
---

In 2022, I read 57 books. That is down from 2021, a year in which I read 70 books, but I'm fine with that since I kicked off 2022 with the goal of reading fewer books more deeply. I did that.

1. Pu Songling - Strange Tales from a Chinese Studio
1. Nicole Hannah Jones - The 1619 Project
1. Red Pine (translator) - Three Zen Sutras
1. Octavia Butler - Kindred
1. Miriam J.A. Chancy - That Storm, That Thunder
1. The Dhammapada
1. Boethius - The Consolation of Philosophy
1. Knut Hamsun - The Growth of the Soil
1. Vladimir Sorokin  - The Blizzard
1. Lawrence Scott Sheets - Eight Pieces of Empire: A 20-Year Journey Through the Soviet Collapse
1. Timothy Snyder - Bloodlands
1. Olga Tokarczuk - Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead
1. Janelle Shane - You Look Like a Thing and I Love You
1. Svetlana Alexievich - Zinky Boys
1. Garry Kasparov - Winter is Coming: Why Vladimir Putin and the Enemies of the Free World Must Be Stopped
1. Phillip Charles Lucas - The Odyssey of a New Religion
1. Jennifer Raff - Origin: A Genetic History of the Americas
1. Peter Reinhart - Bread Upon the Water
1. Anna Politkovskaya - Putin's Russia
1. Heather McGhee - The Sum of Us: What Racism Costs Everyone and How We Can Prosper Together
1. Ursula LeGuin - The Left Hand of Darkness
1. Omar El Akkad - American War
1. Elizabeth Strout - Olive Kitteridge
1. Elizabeth Strout - Olive Again
1. Eric Nguyen - Things We Lost to the Water
1. William Neuman - Things Are Never So Bad They Can't Get Worse: Inside the Collapse of Venezuela
1. Serhiy Zhadan - Voroshilovgrad
1. Andrej Kurkov - Grey Bees
1. Timothy Snyder - The Road to Unfreedom: Russia, Europe, America
1. Ursula Leguin - The Lathe of Heaven
1. Zadie Smith - Intimations
1. William James - The Varieties of Religious Experience
1. Lydia Perovic - Lost in Canada
1. Benjamin E. Park - Kingdom of Nauvoo: The Rise and Fall of a Religious Empire on the American Frontier
1. Omar El Akkad - What Strange Paradise
1. Graham Greene - The Heart of the Matter
1. Becky Chambers - A Prayer for the Crown
1. Maggie Shipstead - Great Circle
1. W. Somerset Maugham - The Moon and Sixpence
1. Douglas Stuart - Young Mungo
1. Graham Greene - Brighton Rock
1. Lynn Steger Strong - Want
1. Barbara Enrenreich - Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America
1. Susan J. Palmer - Aliens Adored: Raël's UFO Religion
1. Graham Greene - The Power and the Glory
1. Harrison Mooney - Invisible Boy
1. Yiyun Li - The Book of Goose
1. Ed Burmilla - Chaotic Neutral: How the Democrats Lost Their Soul in the Center
1. Gretchen Sorin - Driving While Black: African American Travel and the Road to Civil Rights
1. Patrick Radden Keefe - Empire of Pain: The Secret History of the Sackler Dynasty
1. Maggie Haberman - Confidence Man: The Making of Donald Trump and the Breaking of America
1. Ryszard Kapuczinski - The Emperor
1. Katherine Dunn - Toad
1. Margaret Atwood - The Penelopiad
1. Katherine Dunn - Geek Love
1. Ovid - Metamorphosis
1. Alexander Pushkin - Eugene Onegin

The past couple of years I'd made a point to read an equal number of books by women as men and to deliberately try to increase the diversity of authors I read. This year I decided to relax on that a bit and give myself more freedom to read whatever struck my fancy. As I result I ended up reading 27 books by women (45%) and a lower number of books by Black or Indigenous authors than in previous years. I actually don't think it made much difference in the diversity of the authors of the contemporary books I read, but I ended up selecting more books from the 19th and 20th centuries where the authors of canonical books are more likely to be white men.

Other stats? Slightly more fiction than non-fiction, almost half American, a little over 10% Canadian.

I also joined the Reed alumni online book club, so some of these choices come from there.

Themes?

Religion, and books I meant to read in university was one theme. William James' "The Varieties of Religious Experience" was actually the first book assigned in Religion 100 when I was at Reed. I transferred into that class a couple of weeks late and, depsite majoring in Religion, never completed the reading until now.

Ovid's "Metamorphosis" also falls under that umbrella. It wasn't in the syllabus for Hum 110 my first year, Apuleius's "The Golden Ass" was. It was added to the Hum 110 reading list the following year. All of my friend who took Hum that year said it was their favourite reading. I finally got to it. It is good.

Related to Reed, books by recently deceased Reedies was another theme. Barbara Enrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" is a still fantastic read about what it is like to be a part of the working poor in America, and Katherine Dunn's "Geek Love" is truly bizarre.

Another theme was Putin's Russia. Timothy Snyder's "The Road to Unfreedom: Russia, Europe, America" and Garry Kasparov's "Winter is Coming: Why Vladimir Putin and the Enemies of the Free World Must Be Stopped" both make it clear that Putin has not been shy about his imperial ambitions for at least the past ten years and that the best thing that could happen for stability in Europe and the well-being of Russians themselves is for him to be soundly beaten in Ukraine and elsewhere. Sláva Ukrayíni!

Recommendations?

In fiction, I really enjoyed Octavia Butler's "Kindred." Elizabeth Strout's books about Olive Kitteridge are excellent. Andrej Kurkov's "Grey Bees" set in Ukraine's Grey Zone is very good. Graham Greene's "The Heart of the Matter" is colonial as heck but very good and referenced frequently in Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's "Americanah". "Geek Love" is all that, "Metamorphosis" is fantastic, and "Eugene Onegin" is very good even in English.

Non-fiction, "The Road to Unfreedom" and "Winter is Coming" are essential reading right now. Svetlana Alexievich's "Zinky Boys" is a fantastic collection of oral history from the Soviet war in Afghanistan. "Nickel and Dimed" I already mentioned. Heather McGhee's "Sum of Us: What Racism Costs Everyone and How We Can Prosper Together" does a great job articulating how time and again Americans chose to cut off their noses to spite their faces by doing things like draining and shutting down public pools and community centres rather than integrating them and articulating that doesn't have to be like that.

Oddball recommendations on special topics: Phillip Charles Lucas's "The Odyssey of a New Religion" is about The Holy Order of MANS, the group that was behind Brother Juniper's Bakery. And Pu Songling's "Strange Tales from a Chinese Studio" is the source for "A Chinese Ghost Story" and bunch of other HK films.